[Music]
for those who are not familiar with you
or even the notion of Ebonics and where
it came from
you made your public debut about 20
years ago during the uproar around
Oakland public school district wanting
to a proposal to teach Ebonics to black
children in school can you take us back
and and and get for those who are not
aware more information about the
proposal and how you kind of rose as the
B thought leader on Black English or
Evonik no I'm not the thought leader on
it but it's interesting that you trace
like whatever reason I'm sitting here
back to that because you're correct but
it's not something that many people have
any reason to know basically it was I
can't believe that it was 20 years ago
now that the Oakland School Board and
this was a primarily black school board
with a largely black and brown public
school population were alarmed that
children in the school system who were
black were failing so much particularly
in reading so they were operating on a
hypothesis that had gotten around in
some parts of the country here and there
before that perhaps part of black kids
problem in school was that their home
dialect was black English which you can
think of as a separate system from
standard English and that so when they
were encountering standard English on
the page they were encountering
basically a different language and it
was hard to make the switch so the idea
was not to teach them a dialect they
already spoke but to use the dialect in
teaching materials and to call special
attention to the fact that there are two
different ways for them of speaking
English so the idea was to use it as
kind of a translation tool now the media
just jumped on this and completely
misunderstood what was meant by dialect
what was meant by using it in the
classroom and so the big joke was that
basically Ebonics which is a name for
black English no one had heard of until
then except for a few education scholars
in about 1973 that this Ebonics was
going to be taught in class as opposed
to standard English and this was right
around
and when around the clock Cable News
started it was Christmas and so it was a
slow news cycle Fox News was new and so
there's a reason why this became such a
big deal at that time so the whole
country is laughing at this idea that
there's something called Ebonics that is
actually language or a language as
people put it and I was in a weird
position because to tell you the truth I
came out of that despised by the Black
English establishment to this day
they're people of that sort who will
walk by me at a conference and not say a
word literally that's how mean people
get about it because I said black
English is legitimate speech but it's
not why these kids are having problems
in school and I talked about problems
I'm sure we've all heard about you know
inner-city schools I said that's the
problem it's not the dialect we don't
need to give it special attention in the
classroom I think I was misunderstood
and I didn't have the experience then
that I do now in trying to get out of my
own head so really it was if I may the
expression today is a shitshow
the whole thing and the media was a
show my life was a show but that is
how it started because that's when
people got the idea that I was
quote-unquote
interesting so that's what happened so
where did the term Ebonics actually come
from it was something somebody made up
in good faith in about 1973 there was a
psychologist a black psychologist who
was concerned with the same sorts of
things that we're talking about he
didn't happen to be a linguist and so he
wanted to make up a name for black
English that didn't sound like Negro
English which is what it was called
evany was a hot term at the time it
didn't sound as dated as it does now and
if you're talking about phonics well he
figured since this is about reading
we'll call it Ebonics
it's a moment that's so long ago and I
mean I was only a small kid myself but I
can just smell Ebonics must have felt
really cool at the time that felt modern
it felt like people with big afros I
mean that made sense but it was only
something used really at one conference
and it there was one volume that called
it that but there was this one guy and
if you want to imagine this guy
basically take imagine al Sharpton
right now you have him in your head now
imagine al Sharpton 20 years ago as
opposed to the sort of statesman that
he's become now that now change the hair
put him in a suit and there was this guy
who was kind of a linguist and kind of a
doctor at the same time named Ernie
Smith who was really big on arguing that
black English is a separate language
from English and that anybody who says
otherwise is a Kente cloth wearing
poverty pimp that's what he used to call
people names he actually sent me long
screeds telling me that I must have a
subdural hematoma because I don't think
that black English is Hebrew it was
scary he had a major influence on a lot
of school teachers he picked up that
Ebonics term he had given it to the
Oakland people and so they were using it
and that's the only reason that we now
say Ebonics for about ten years I said
I'm not using that term and then I
realized everybody it's it's set and so
you just have to accept it
so Ebonics but it's chance that you and
I are calling it that and so what is
your definition of black English and
this distinction from slang
you mean you want like one thing or it
many well we boring people like
linguists think of black English as a
set of grammatical constructions which
if I may many of you until of course you
read my book which is the only source
that's ever been written on it many of
you will think of as the mistakes black
people make when they talk all of those
things if you put them together they're
not mistakes they're just differences
from standard English and so when we say
black English what we really mean is
that alternate grammar that's not really
gonna help for the public and so I'm
gonna use something that I think is more
useful whether you want to admit it or
not and I have old chapter in the book
about why we need to get over pretending
this isn't true whether you want to
admit it or not when you hear somebody
talk on the phone if you're on the train
and you don't see them you know
in an instant whether or not they're
black 99.5% of the time we all do to
grow up in the United States is to know
that it's not just a matter of this
clinical bad grammar the person may not
be using any black slang you know in an
instant and if you're white you've
brought it up with some of your nearest
and dearest and wondered whether it was
racist to say anything about it a lot of
black people know it and aren't quite
sure what to do with it and so we tell
ourselves that they're white people who
sound just like black people which
they're almost never are and that we say
well black people just have southern
accents as if black people talk like Roy
Moore and we know that there is a huge
difference that's black English why can
you tell it's partly the sound system
it's partly grammatical features and to
tell you the truth the slang is the
least of it that changes every 10
minutes but there's a different system
that is a legitimate alternate that's
what black English is and is black
English different from Ebonics no
Ebonics refers to the exact same thing
about it and so it's not use that word
black black English stuck in and so yeah
Ebonics
so I find this very fascinating after
reading the book because I'm Jamaican
and grew up in in America um so at home
I spoke patois I still sleep Proxima um
and that you know growing up in a
predominantly black and Hispanic
neighborhood I guess I spoke like
English you did um yeah and but it's
cool and now at work I speak Standard
English so I think there's something
really to be said about your argument
that it's actually a dialect and it's
accepted in other what's let's talk
about the word accepted right it's
accepted in Jamaica or in Haiti but
they're still it's still like you can't
go to work or to speak in patois no so
talk about why do you think it's not
accepted in the US and what role does
race
some have in that lack of acceptance um
well one thing that you get out usefully
is that in Jamaica that there are
terrible things said about Pat well
there are people who disavow using it I
had neighbors for example very educated
neighbors from Jamaica
who said when I said I have studied
Creole languages that they don't speak
it I don't know how often I would hear
them going up and down the steps
speaking something I couldn't understand
a word oh you call those people stuff is
there a word for that they were they
really and that's coming from me and I'm
kind of uppity but yeah they were and so
they did speak it and that's very common
that's true of black English to people
who would say I would never speak that
way to my kids and turn around and speak
exactly you know that way that's how it
goes with varieties that are vernacular
basically around the world with patois
part of why maybe it has a slightly
easier time is that it's more different
so if you speak pat while you speak
something where unless I listen closely
and I have a little bit of training I
don't know what you're saying and so
that's really something that's a
different language I have to wrap my ear
around it your syntax the prefixes and
suffixes that you use are really really
different from anything that I would say
most people in this room are likely to
be familiar with from English but yeah
racism is part of it and this book got
ripped in the New York Times by some
individual who was mad at me gosh no
one's ever mad at me mad at me because I
didn't stress racism enough in the book
and I didn't and I wouldn't do it now
because I don't think it's constructive
to tell America's readers if you don't
like the way black people talk and if
you think it's wrong you're a racist and
the reason that I don't think it's
effective it's because I've seen that it
isn't effective for twenty years I have
watched people read that argument and
kind of pretend to agree but they think
to themselves no I'd be a racist not to
call them on their bad grammar that's
perfectly reasonable but is the reason
that people think of it as such trash
talk partly because people are black
certainly definitely but we also have to
remember suppose it wasn't Ebonics that
came out in 1997 in that controversy
suppose it was
well to use ROI more let's say that it
was uneducated not Alabama let's say
Mississippians
and so poor white trash southern English
and suppose some people said our kids
don't do well in school maybe it's
because the speech that we use at home
is so different let's use it in the
classroom I don't think anybody would
have thought that was wonderful
everybody would have laughed at them too
now would they have laughed as hard
would they have laughed in exactly the
same way no but I think part of it is
that we as Americans have a relatively
uniform dialect we have a relatively
uniform English they're people who speak
differently black people especially
that's about as different as it gets
unless you go to the Sea Islands and ear
Gullah or if you go to Hawaii and hear
Hawaiian pidgin other than that
everybody speaks variations on this one
sort of the way people talk on the
office it is and so when we hear
vernacular when we hear something
different it's easier for Americans to
think that's wrong and we need to learn
that there have always been different
ways of speaking English and that the
reason that the one used in the office
is considered the best one it's just
chance and so we can't help hearing that
as the default we're human beings but
it's just it's just chance so yeah race
plays a part and there are books about
Black English I would recommend spoken
soul just a better title than mine by
John Rickford which he wrote after the
Ebonics crisis where he gets across the
racist aspect of it better than I ever
could but I think it that's that's been
written and with all due respect for
John Rickford who was my dissertation
adviser that argument only works with us
it doesn't spread and so I wanted
something that would have a wider sway
gional impact so that's my sloppy answer
to that question um so in your chapter
it's complicated
part of your defense of black English
being a dialect it's rooted in its
complexities I'll highlight a few
examples and I think everyone here will
be familiar with them so the word up and
how the word up is used like DMX y'all
go make me lose my mind up in here up
about it yeah what's up about it right
done he done lost his mind
right and had which everyone what had
happened was
so can you dissect that a little bit
further and talk about the complexities
of black in English and why that makes
it a dial those things are so important
because it's easy to miss it somebody
will often tell you about Black English
and they'll say well this is a different
system because you can drop off these
consonants it's a different system
because you don't have to use this word
for to be it's different it's not worse
it's just different it's different in
that you can leave this out and chop
this off and drop this off and then
everybody wonders why people still don't
think that it's sophisticated you have
to talk about how it's more complicated
and it tends to be in the ways which
when we hear them we think well that's
just slang when really it's complicated
and so for example the done it's not
just the past so for example yesterday
what did I drink a really bad glass of
wine so yesterday I drank a glass of
Rose a okay that's standard standard
English yesterday I done drunk a glass
of rose a would not be how somebody who
was speaking black English would say it
it's not past tense the done is used in
a very specific way it indicates that
something's counter expectation 'el and
so you don't grow it up is what you
would say to somebody who's one of those
people who's too tall to be 13 or
something it's counter expectation all
you done ate it doesn't mean yesterday
you consumed some food it means I was
gonna find it in the refrigerator and
you ate it you done ate it that's what
it means now no one knows that outside
of somebody who has too much time on
their hands and becomes an academic
basically but that's what it is and
standard English doesn't have a way to
indicate that in such an economic way
and so done is complicated up sounds
like slang you think of Will Smith or
DMX or something like that it really
indicates intimacy so you would never
say up at the dentists because you're
not happy there unless it was on a hill
or something like that but you would
never
up at the dentists you could give away
an infidelity by accident by saying oh I
was I was up at Clarissa's well if
Clarissa just lives flat on the street
and you're talking about it being up how
often are you there
that's what up means and so you hear it
usually you're dancing or something and
you think oh up black people say up too
much it means something very specific
there are a bunch of those and so the I
won't take up time with what's called
the narrative had but it means that
black English has a separate tense from
standard English and so it's not just
what had happened was you can listen to
people speaking the dialect using had in
a way where it's natural to think they
used to pluperfect too much but no it's
actually very specific how that hat is
used so the book has a list of those
things and that list could go longer but
black English is complicated in the same
ways as it is simplified from the
standard and it's not a forced point
it's not a matter of me sitting and
trying to squeeze the last drops of
water out of that washcloth thinking
well how is it sort of complicated it
just falls out it's just something that
most people haven't had any reason to
write about so that's part of why I
wrote that book so there's an objection
and then you'd speak about this in the
book but they can't talk that way at a
job interview mm-hmm
and again being Jamaican I could never
go anywhere and speak my mother would
slap me oh that's why because it's
embarrassing it's come up as uneducated
so when people say you can't speak that
way at a job interview and that
indicates that black English is not
acceptable it's not a dialect let's talk
about that that means they miss the
entire point of London black English is
so can you just talk about that some
more who would talk that way a job
interview and so basically people speak
different ways in different places more
than many Americans have any reason to
know for the reason I mentioned but if
somebody's response to all of this is
well I can't talk that that way at a job
interview often that seems to indicate
that somehow it refutes whatever the
person said before but no you wouldn't
talk that way to a job interview but
that doesn't mean that you
can't or that you shouldn't talk that
way during the other 98.5% of your life
so at a job interview yeah you have to
learn how to speak in what is
arbitrarily considered the standard way
but that doesn't mean that you shouldn't
have these alternate ways of speaking so
I have that chapter I that was something
I use as a lead-in to explaining how
many people around the world such as you
have two very different ways of speaking
that you toggle between and that that's
how Arabs live that is how most people
in India and Sri Lanka live more people
in China live that way then are often
willing to admit it but that is very
true Mandarin is one thing step to feet
outside of Beijing and often people are
speaking what might as well be
Vietnamese there are different levels of
Chinese in that way so it's just
ordinary and in most of those places
nobody would say well you can't talk
that way at a job interview and
therefore there should be no such thing
as Egyptian Arabic nobody would say that
there is standard Arabic and there's
Egyptian Arabic max because I always
call you out when I'm on a stage and
you're in the audience IMAX and so
Egypt's in Arabic and standard Arabic so
the idea well you can't talk that way at
a job interrview that's a nice statement
but nobody said that anybody wanted to
and so III bristle I bridle at that
statement because it kind of gets in the
way of getting across fun things like up
in the head and everything else and
there are people in the black community
that actually say these mm-hmm these
type of yep can't talk that way to job
interview they say having spoken that
way their entire lives it's just we need
to we need to cut through these sorts of
biases and so that brings me to this
notion of code-switching so we talked
about that a lot here as as black igloo
because we oscillate it's mean we're
we're a minority but when you see your
people you then switch into black
subconscious right subconsciously so how
does like code-switching play into this
overall constructive black English and
Tasha I'm gonna give you the real answer
on code switching code switching you
describe what it is it is subconscious
nobody was talking about it with a name
until roughly the 1970s
and one is expected to talk about it and
you know I'm not being a smartypants in
saying this but I think this is really
where it fits in code-switching and I I
mean this lightly code-switching as a
topic bores me to tears whenever a
student wants to write about it
whenever I have to give a lecture on it
I just have to take a deep breath and
pretend you know that's what we all do
for about half of our lives
code-switching Spanish in English and
Wow people in Spanish Harlem they switch
between English and Spanish who would
have thunk it you know of course they do
you know it's basically people live
between languages in between dialects
frankly in most of the world by or
multilingualism is probably the norm
nobody's ever done an exact count but
probably the norm and so if people speak
two things then chances are that the two
things are gonna mix together to an
extent as part of identity part of you
is formal and so you're gonna speak your
Mandarin part of you is normal life and
so you're gonna speak the local dialect
that's completely different and of
course you're going to toggle between
the two so black English usage is a
matter of code switching to but it also
confuses the matter because somebody who
studies the dialect will put up all
these constructions on the board and say
well here it is and understandably even
a speaker thinks that's not how I talk
because I don't talk that way all day
and so they're thinking well it's really
just something that you sprinkle in what
they mean is that we code-switch but
it's a very ordinary thing to see
somebody who goes through all of their
life speaking more or less the same way
as in frankly most educated white or
blue American people that's unusual
that's not the norm as we naturally
think it is the speech repertoire of
somebody who grows up in Greenwich
Connecticut is not the norm in terms of
how most people negotiate language
around the world so you with Jamaican
black English in English I look at you
and I think you're better you know you
have a wider English I tried to call one
book I wrote a wider English and they
thought that wouldn't sell and they were
right but you have
you have a broader repertoire then
they're people who have standard and
black then they're people who only have
that one thing and you know life goes on
but that's that's unusual and so you're
better and your normal is the thing you
having all of that is normal it doesn't
make you exotic Greenwich Connecticut is
exotic so so it's an example so white
Southern Americans there you code-switch
who's mean they don't think of it that
way they say well I slip a little
something in no you code switch you have
two things but people don't get told
that enough that's part of why I wrote
this because everybody is going to read
it whole country so as black culture
starts to permeate mainstream culture do
you foresee black English becoming more
accepted yes it's happening right now
right here you just see it outside in
these hallways something has changed
profoundly in the past 20 years in
particular in the way that not the
stereotype but this Greenwich
Connecticut person or somebody who grows
up in Scarsdale the way that person
speaks is influenced by black English in
ways that nobody would have predicted
before about 1995 and I think it's a
good thing it certainly doesn't mean
that we're anything like past race but
in that superficial way there's a coming
together that for example hadn't
happened when I was in college if I up
at Columbia I will see white men in
particular greeting each other and
talking to each other in ways that
they're not thinking of as black at all
but in terms of the sound system in
terms of the slang in terms of even a
lot of the gestures and the body
language and subtle aspects of facial
demeanor they're acting black in a way
that their parents which I hate to admit
it's at the point where I went to
college with their parents their parents
who were very cool guys cooler than me
they didn't talk like that they didn't
move like that they couldn't dance like
that they didn't act like that it was a
different time and it wasn't 1927 this
was like 1987 those people's kids now
are influenced by this new the
say did I call that lingua franca lingua
franca in a way that nobody would have
dreamed before so yeah it's it's really
changing watch any stand-up comedian at
this point and listen to a lot of the
things that they do watch broad city and
watch Abbi and Ilana and whenever they
say something that's meant to be funny
about 50% of the time they're saying it
in a black way I doubt if they're
thinking of it that way but that's
certainly what they do that's new their
mothers didn't talk that way and their
mothers were not wearing crinoline
skirts it's just that something has
happened over the past generation what
do you think that is is it is it hip-hop
music yes the mainstreaming of rap in
the late 90s created a whole new
consciousness which shows that this is
superficial but I do think that's what
did it yeah definitely so further than
that point of black culture becoming
mainstream culture this is a tough one
as people start to become more
comfortable with the black English
particular I know what you're I know
what so and I and I get this question
from a ton of my white friends from
college and from graduate school because
it's two words why can't we the word the
n-word yes it's very
hip-hop culture is mainstream culture is
used all the time every other word and
it seems like we've taken the sting out
of the N word and now that they feel
like they're part of the culture many
feel like they can say the word it's
very very complicated I am asked about
that in some venue probably three or
four times a week including yesterday
and the first answer is anyone who says
well if we're not supposed to use the
word nigger then it's wrong for black
people to use it too that completely
misses the boat because the black usage
of it isn't the usage of it that Roy
Moore's father used I don't know
anything about his you can tell so not
not that it became a different word
which means buddy so when you're
listening you know we don't have to
exotic size it go
to the subway today when you go home all
you have to do is go like this and you
will hear some black boys using it they
don't mean what Bull Connor meant it
means buddy so I don't you won't not
only you not you will also hear yeah
Hispanic kids saying it Chinese kids
I've heard white kids singing on the
subway it's dude that's complicated I
remember when I first heard actually a
white guy use it and I thought wait a
minute cuz I had seen him it was in a
7-eleven or something and I thought wait
he was white did he change and I turned
around it was about ten years ago and I
thought I can tell he didn't mean that
in a bad way and I thought this is gonna
continue and then it has it's subtle
because that boy thinks that because he
listens to the music because he dresses
in a certain way moves a certain way has
had relationships with you know probably
a couple of black girls he lives in a
very different way he thinks he can use
it to mean buddy because he thinks of
himself as that buddy in the same
positive way that black kids do you and
I see it and we think no you have to
understand the history of the word
you know something Natasha I don't think
we can control that you know I want to
say well that shouldn't be in their
whole books that are written about it
and we're gonna go in the subway and
we're gonna keep hearing those Filipino
boys those Asian boys I'm now hearing
aged Chinese American kids doing it can
we fix that I don't think so they're not
listening and if any of them learn to
listen then the younger ones coming up I
think we have to get used to that and
I'm not saying that it doesn't make me
bristle too but there are some things
you can't fix I don't think you can fix
that Chinese couple of guys saying that
any more than you could stop black guys
from saying it or black women so it's a
weird thing but the response to it it's
just like they can't talk that way to
job interview the response to it is not
simply we can't use it so how come those
black men can use it it's two words but
the question is what do you do about
that second version when other people
start taking it up it's hard it's a hard
one it's a tough one I still don't
accept that I always say so
thing and I have to but but I guess as
black English becomes more acceptable
that's probably one of the downsides of
it is that well I would have to agree
and there are people who are gonna go to
their graves not liking what they hear
that's her I don't intend to die but
most people seem to just accept it and
they are going to go underground and
that's just that's it in the audience
thank you looking forward to reading
your book thank you
I moved to this country when I was 16 my
sister was three years younger than me I
noticed she picked up a lot of what you
described right black English and I
didn't then I think there was this
slight difference in where we wore in
our formative years that allowed her to
pick up parts of this language that I
never ended up doing even though you
know we lived in the same household and
I've you know I think what you talk
about how it's been spreading something
was in the back of my mind hear a lot
about this idea of cultural and
misappropriation but it feels like it's
a slightly different power dynamic at
work here and I'm curious about what
that is because I can't quite put my
finger on it well see that's one of
those things because your sister would
have been picking up these ways of
speaking and probably moving and and
joking without thinking about it it's
not like she did it on purpose she just
that happened because of who she was
around and it may not have even been
from black girls she could have gotten
it from other girls of whatever and so
that's her reality and some people would
say that that's cultural appropriation
but I don't know I don't know your
sister but I'm I've got a picture and
I'm not sure that I would accuse her of
anything in terms of cultural
appropriation she was busy studying and
watching TV so she didn't know and I
don't think that I could condemn her for
whatever she's saying and doing and
however she's moving so there is a such
thing as cultural appropriation but I am
unpopular in some circles and saying
that no it's not appropriation for
people to start talking more like black
people simply because
I am not aware I'm also not an
anthropologist but I play one on TV I am
not aware of any world historical
situation where people came together and
didn't start sharing I don't know where
that was
people from above take from people below
people from below take from people above
I don't know how you would stop that and
so for cultural appropriation the
argument sounds to me like people are
saying in particularly the situation of
the descendants of African slaves in a
misbegotten country called the United
States of America in the beginning of
the 21st century and only then only in
that situation people are going to come
together and not mix it doesn't strike
me as something that has any chance of
happening and so I'd rather be unhappy
about things that I can change that's my
personal view most advocates of black
English would not have given you that
answer don't take me as representative
but I've got to be me thanks for coming
first of all you mentioned that rap was
a huge influence and rise of black
English outside African American
community in my recollection gangsta rap
seemed like one of the things that
really helped bring this on and it was a
very aggressive angry message that they
had in a resonated with a lot of people
but it also came from a place of Street
toughness and I'm wondering if you know
that became part of the modern
Association of that kind of language
with these guys who were mad who were
poor who weren't gonna take it anymore
and it has that sort of had like
negative influence or negative
perceptions of black English even today
it helps certainly I think that the
association of black speech with this
violence and the street can be taken a
little further back to the 60s I think
that a lot of that started with what was
called the long hot summers and the
prelude to it so there's this new idea
that black speech is somehow angry or
menacing but certainly that was focused
by the tone of the rap that was most
popular at that
time and I think there's an extent to
which any teenager and this is almost
gender-neutral it's probably more among
boys but there's a tendency to think of
aggression and sticking it to the
oppressor to the man or to your parents
as authenticity is something that one
does as a team and so it played into
that it's something that you know white
boys were doing in different ways in
1973 but it certainly was a useful
source for striking those sorts of poses
and I think you know it still is in
general to the extent that that black
vibe is associated with giving the
finger to the authorities people still
use it in that way it can be a good
thing and a bad thing at the same time
so I was I was reading a while back 1984
and in the in the novel Orwell kind of
touches upon how language can inform
consciousness and I had remembered oh
also he's not a linguist right and
neither am i so this is like a stupid
question well was brilliant you probably
are too so you had mentioned before that
there is probably some superficiality in
how black English has spread through the
you know popularization of hip-hop and I
don't want to like challenge that but I
just I just want to ask if it is the
case like if language does inform
consciousness then does the spread of
black English actually have some sort of
impact that maybe we're not probing in
how we look at and relate to each other
it doesn't necessarily need to be on
racial lines but you know what I'm gonna
give you the real answer for that
instead of the the prepackaged one
because the real one predictably is is
more interesting but it's less certain
this is something I haven't gotten to
this yet there are people who are
studying what makes black English
different all the time
a lot of what I put in books like this
is from watching the research being done
and thinking oh that's interesting for
example it was one person only about
eight years ago who
get out done that had bested everybody
including me I have one early book where
I made something up about it I had no
idea but I knew nobody would catch me on
it cuz nobody knew somebody actually
figured it out and you know what they're
figuring out and I don't I don't get the
feeling that the others are noticing
this pattern but I've wondered whether I
should go public with it and then I just
you know I had a second child but a lot
of black English's constructions carry a
certain indignation proportionally more
than I'm used to seeing in other human
speech varieties I don't want that to be
true
I find it peculiar but very often when
you find actually wait a minute that's
grammar it's kind of an angry grammar
and so for example there's a future
perfect in black English be done which I
don't think I mentioned in this book you
know I be done killed him if he does
that again the truth would be done is
that it's grammatically very
sophisticated but it's only used when
you're angry you don't talk about it
when you're talking about drinking juice
or something like that
they're various constructions where I
think what is it about culture history
and these constructions is there a
reason for that and linguists distrust
linking language and culture too tightly
and I also don't want to call this
wonderful dialect angry but on the other
hand there are some reasons that black
people might have from being angry and
so I don't know and I really mean it I
have meant to look into it and I keep
getting sidetracked but my question may
be my I think more so than culture is
specifically behavior itself right like
if I raised a child right and he was
inundated in an angry grammar would he
behave in a way that relationship no if
the child was raised with a angry
grammar that is the title of something
I'm gonna write this race with angry
grammar but the child is not raised in
an angry life that angry grammar will
make the child infinitesimally more
angry in ways that you could isolate in
some silly psychological experiment the
grammar alone will not have him walking
out of the house with a club
right grammar does not do that it would
be infinitesimal but culture and
language do have an influence on each
other
the angry culture is I think of more
concern than the angry future perfect
but one does wonder about such things
thank you sorry that's okay because you
gave me a title question here hi thank
you so much for coming so my question is
actually kind of going back to your
question about the N word because I
actually disagree with like the concept
of having to just accept it and the
reason for that is because I feel as
though there are a lot of other
communities that also have you know
similar words that the general populace
say for example in the LGBTQ community
the use of the f-word you know like they
may use it interchange like with amongst
their own community but at the end of
the day I don't feel compelled to call
anyone that um and so I guess I feel as
though there are certain exceptions that
are made when it comes to the N word
when it comes to other people wanting to
use it in our community and sort of like
the acceptance of like hey we just have
to deal with the fact that it's going to
happen and it's just gonna happen what
exactly about sort of I guess black
language or sort of black culture etc do
you feel makes people feel as though
they have to make that concession a and
B are there other types of like quote
unquote concessions that we feel like we
just have to you know it's gonna happen
we can't do anything about it
and people are gonna want to participate
in a certain way where you know when you
look at it and transpose it into other
communities in similar situations you
can't really understand why you would
want to I know yeah this is um the viral
clip with Tana Jose Coates two or three
weeks ago where he makes a similar point
and the response to it is this that is a
rich question and that's a huge that one
must compare why is it that nobody is
walking around trying to use the f-word
and there are exactly four answers and
I'm gonna forget one of them one of them
is that there's a difference between the
word that ends in ER and the word that
ends in
and so it's not that white boys are
trying to use the ER one it's the a one
where that word is thought of as having
a different meaning than the nasty one
that's one part second is why is it only
black people and the thing is to the
extent that anybody agrees that America
is all about race and that that's the
substrate that's part of why it would be
black people rather than LGBT or
whatever Indians call each other etc
that would attract that kind of
attention especially because of third
point the music and so the music becomes
America's mainstream music in a way that
nobody would have expected and the music
especially a lot of it in the recent
past uses that buddy word all the time
so you've got that in your ears and
especially with modern technology you
walk around with it it's in your ears
all the time and so that also it's not
only that America is all about race but
America becomes all about hip-hop and
that word is in it and then finally it's
because especially boys like calling
each other
salty affectionate names and so for
example there's a Seinfeld episode where
George Costanza picks up calling his
friends bastard from these white men and
say hey bastard a bastard and that or
you know a certain generation of white
men have that son of a bitch and that's
affectionate that word ending in a is
that all of that I think comes together
and means that that's why people want it
to be that word whereas let's say that
gay men walked around calling each other
if I'm a affectionately all
the time I don't know if they do that
would be less likely to jump the rails
because there is no gay hip hop that
people are listening to all the time it
has a lot to do with the centrality of
blackness in the culture that's my
explanation and because I feel that all
that is so big and I feel so weak I
accept that the white boy is going to
say nigga
people would disagree with me on that I
don't think that I have any kind of Word
of God on that as opposed to so many
other things but on this question I just
have an opinion but I think that's why I
think that Tana Haase coats his version
of it with all due respect to him is a
little oversimplified there's a reason
why the black word would get so much
attention one of them is that black is
everything and another is that there are
two of those words so thank you welcome
I am you talked about they you can't use
that in a job interview line as being
not the point because like we all know
that but would you say that's it's
necessarily problematic that we can't do
that because it means that some people
are have a much harder time in that
socially important area like should we
be able to tolerate that in a job
interview or is that also not the point
there should be no such thing as
standard English it's an abomination
we're stuck with it
that's just the way it's gonna be I'm a
fatalist but no nobody would have any
trouble with comprehension in any real
way if everybody could just talk and
write the way they wanted to in this
country wouldn't work in Italy or
Germany where there's more variation but
here it's an arbitrary thing so yes I do
think it's the same a person who doesn't
feel comfortable in standing English
should be able to do an interview the
way they talk because it would affect
comprehension not at all and they'd be
more articulate talking the way they're
used to talking that day will never come
but yes if I could wave a magic wand and
really it's true when I think about
waving that magic wand there are always
three things and it's funny how it
changes throughout my life one of them
now my three are nobody would ever be
hungry the idea that people are walking
around in the world sometimes without
enough to eat that to love would be
based on the inside rather than the
outside the idea that looks matters I
think that's just horrible third no
standard language really everybody
should just be able to talk the way they
want to talk and everything would be
fine but we're just stuck with the
reality on all three of those things I'm
hoping that this isn't as open-ended as
I think it is I
a lot of a lot of what's changed in the
21st century versus the 20th is that we
have online communication and
specifically in last few years you have
phones and keyboards coercing you
towards a standardized English so for
instance I will type in on my phone and
several of my friends complain to me
about the ducting l drain in this
morning good nodding in complete
ignorant and you ducking and so this
happens this happens on a spellcheck and
this happens on a grammatical sense and
it happens a lot in a coercive way
towards a standard very polite English
because a lot of companies say oh we
shouldn't order correct towards another
word because that's a naughty word how
do you feel that that will change the
way people speak and how should we
change that if at all you are put it
this way there are two forms of language
there's speaking and then there's
writing and we write informally today to
an extent that we didn't before but
really the two things are very different
and so the truth is that whatever
autocorrected does or doesn't do as I
don't mean this in a flippant way but it
has no significant effect on the way
people speak and we speak a lot more
most of us than we write however in
general people are spontaneously by
dialectal in writing as well as in
speech so they're gonna be things that
go on on keyboards that really in the
grand scheme of things mean that you can
choose to be or force yourself to be
informal or formal the decisions that
people make in terms of how these things
correct or don't they're always
interesting but I don't think that
they're gonna affect the basic sense
that one languages speech and two even
when we're writing will always be able
to do it in different ways so for
example the word ducking so to speak
it's not going away no matter what some
program you know tries to do especially
because that's primarily a spoken
word so we'll see but I take your point
yeah I think we have one more question
here hey good to see you
who max is one of my students from
Colombia hi max hey so with the
prevalence of American pop culture and
music worldwide and its influence
do you see an interesting effects of
black English on other English's
worldwide or even other languages um I
do because it's not only here in the
United States because of the music that
way of speaking English is having an
effect in other parts of the world
including among people who have no sense
of whatever the social parameters are
they just do it and also use the
language of that place in a way that has
a black effect I've heard rap in Germany
where I was thinking this is black
German and most of these people have
never met an American black person in
their lives and it's ironic once I was
in New Guinea
I spent a short week in New Guinea and
everything was completely different the
food in an Indonesian is nothing like
any language any of us have probably
ever known it was about 200 degrees the
whole time
the whole sense of where a bathroom is
and what it's like even in formal
situations was something that one had to
learn as one went so to speak it was
absolutely amazing the one thing that
was the most familiar was that the boys
including many of them who you know
compared to Americans are much smaller
knows it's I was so tall in this place
the boys could rap in English sounding
exactly like jay-z even when they didn't
really speak English you know they speak
Indonesian but they could go right into
it that or uh sure
a lot of them could just sing exactly
like Usher when I could barely have
conversation what the mother was that
was something I found very interesting
in terms of music making and so ten
minutes ago somebody in New Guinea
making music God knows what they did I
don't know today a young boy in New
Guinea who makes music gets up with
gestures and movements and a sense of
accompaniment and a sense of attitude
and that word we've been talking about
even if it's in some language we've
never heard of that's absolutely
fascinating to me it's everywhere no one
would have expected this 20 minutes ago
and here we are in this minute that's
the answer we have a question from
gentlemen so thank you dr. McCord or
professor McCord er really appreciate
all the expertise that you provided one
question that I have though is when we
talk about language at least in the
American context about black English
there seems to be no way to separate the
etymology of the language and the
political nature in the way that it's
received and the way it's treated so
when we talk about the boring
code-switching papers and things like
that it seems like part of that's
connected to the fact of there's a
weight to the type of switching that one
particular part of the community or the
the population has hollering versus
others and of power so when we talk
about the the future of how black
English is accepted academically
accepted culturally and accepted just in
general as a language how do you think
we have to come to terms with the
political and power aspect because it
seems that at least within the American
context it wasn't just by chance that
standard what we consider standard
English became standard English but it
was an act of power and act of politics
and the way that black English has
traditionally been treated and
code-switching has been treated has been
an also an act of political power
political subjugation or the way that
certain communities have embraced it has
been a counteract of power so how as an
academic as someone who researches this
how do you come to terms and how does
the academic community come to terms
with that idea of not only understanding
there is a aspect of language that is
organic and changing and things like
that but also that there is a political
and power aspect as well oh that's a
very good question most of the people
who study black English and honestly
what I do in linguistics is such that
I've got a couple of toes in black
English study enough to write this but
it's not my main
so that community I know them like them
but that's not where I go to five
conferences a year most of that
community would feel that what we need
to do is change those power relations
that we need to change the way people
think and often many of them say that
standard English is a gatekeeper
language and it's not fair that a black
speaker should have to learn that at all
which I think intellectually is true so
the idea is that we need to change
society that is a respectable view it is
not my politics I'm just not that
idealistic so they are leftists
god bless the leftist I'm more liberal
in this sense I just don't see I don't
see how society is gonna change the way
a lot of them do which puts me at odds
with some academics but I think this
this is what I think we can get I don't
think we're gonna change that there's a
degree of inequality I hope that in a
hundred years that inequality is not so
tracked to skin color that but I don't
imagine that there will be no inequality
what I think is feasible is to teach
succeeding generations of Americans
seceding generations of no succeeding
generations of Americans that different
forms of language are different but not
worse so of course people are gonna keep
saying you can't use it in a job
interview and somebody like me will say
you have spoken a true thing yes but the
point is if one can hear black English
and not hear junk but can just think
it's different the way somebody in Milan
hears somebody speaking Milanese Italian
and thinks it's different it's not junk
that's as far as I imagine it getting
now our people who are hearing that
still probably gonna think of black
people as lesser human beings that's
gonna be a harder fight my attempt to
kind of pull a few bricks out of that
wall is to try to make it clear to
people who will listen and I find that
if you put it the right way a critical
mass do what you're hearing as mistakes
isn't and I definitely try to pull the
racism out of that equation because it
makes people feel threatened should it
probably yeah but still you want to
keep their minds open so that's what I
think again that's not representative
many people who study the dialect would
have a more revolutionary approach than
I do I'm maybe I'm a little cynical but
I think that we need to be able to hear
all a non-standard speech but especially
black English as interesting rather than
broken down so that's my that's my
mission thank you so much
sure well I we're unfortunately out of
time so but you just want to thank you
on behalf of everyone here thank you all
everyone at Google um this has been
awesome thanks for dropping some
knowledge up in here dropped it
[Applause]
you